---
title: About
layout: post
permalink: /about/
---

I don’t think I can in good faith call this blog “Solastalgia, U.S.A.” without beginning by recognizing the man who coined the word.  The term “solastalgia” is a brilliant term invented by Australian environmental scientist, and Professor of Environmental Studies at the University of Newcastle in New South Wales (Aus.), Glenn Albrecht.  Albrecht coined it in a 2007 study in the journal Australasian Psychiatry which was called “Solastalgia: the distress caused by environmental change”.  Albrecht’s title pretty aptly sums up what “solastalgia” means: It is the feeling of being lost in the place you once called home, despite never leaving.  It is the unshakeable sense that the world around you is slipping away, due to the gradual, or sudden, thinning of the ecological web that breathes all around you.
“Solastalgia” strikes a chord with me because of a particular memory from my childhood that has stuck with me over the years.  When I was young, we used to visit my grandparents, who at that time lived on an old farmhouse in west Michigan.  Adjacent to their house was an undeveloped meadow.  As kids, myself, my younger brother, and cousins used to adventure in there.  The meadow, part of the lands that surrounded their old house, had once been the old farm’s fields in the 19th century.  Now it was an empty space between the old farmhouse and the surrounding newer houses.  The grass grew tall and swayed in amber waves during high summer.  Migratory birds sang the songs of their lives from the trees or the bird-boxes set up by their helpful human allies.  It was a shortcut to your neighbor’s house, a retreat for cross-country skiing in the winter, a place to picnic in the summer.
I loved this meadow.  It was a place of solace.  But as you might guess from context clues, it did not last.  Although, once upon a time, the meadow had belonged to the farmhouse, it did not belong to my grandparents’ property anymore.  It was a commons, an open space that we dipped our toes into, but didn’t own.  The real owners, I would hazard to guess, had never walked their toes across that sunlit eden save accompanied by a surveyor or a construction manager.  The real “owner” – you know, incidentally, can you “own” what you don’t know or understand? – was a real estate developer, whose real objective was to turn this miniature wilderness into a miniature subdivision.
Nothing stands in the way of a developer who wants to develop on land he has purchased.  Dig baby, dig, and so they did.  I remember vividly the Christmas where we went out to the meadow one last time, in my grandmother’s words “to see what they did to it”.  One of the most important features of the meadow, in the days before it was a subdivision, was a set of gentle slopes that my grandmother referred to endearingly as “the bunny hills”.  I don’t remember if there were actual bunnies there at any point, or if the name just described how gentle the slopes were.  But when we arrived at “the bunny hills” that day, a sight incomprehensible met our eyes.  The teeth of a voracious bulldozer had bit deeply into the earth all around us, and where the bunny hills had once been was a sheer 20-foot cliff of exposed soil and rock.  The landscape, which should have been rolling hills tufted with long grass and draped in a soft blanket of white snow, was instead a caricature of devastation; strip-mined West Virginia hills in miniature.  I will never forget that day, nor that strange feeling of nostalgia, of missing something that was right in front of me.  I was standing exactly in the place where it was, but it was gone.  Forever.  It would never come back, and there was nothing I could do about it.
This is the feeling, I think, that Glenn Albrecht encapsulates in this word, “solastalgia”.  It is like nostalgia, but not in the sense of missing some-thing that you have left behind.  Instead, it is the sense of missing some-place that has left you, a solace you can never revisit even if you stand in exactly the same place it was yesterday.
In the world of my personal experience, I will never forget the day I saw the meadow dying.  It is my own touchstone moment for the feeling of solastalgia, perhaps because I was so impressionable and young, perhaps because the destruction, the thinning-away, was of a place that held so much meaning for me personally.  But solastalgia is a global phenomenon, driven by humankind’s manufactured thirst for sucking the earth dry of its resources.  The most striking moments of solastalgia I have personally experienced were in northeastern China, a region of rapid economic expansion, construction, and destruction.  Living in China, where the safest air you can breathe comes out of air purifiers that filter out the dangerous particulate matter that reduces the sky to a filmy haze, and the safest water you can drink comes from private water delivery or expensive distillation devices, makes you realize that such fundamental things as air and water are also a global commons owned by none and used by all.  I can only hope, and shout from the tallest rooftops, that these commons don’t go the way of the beautiful meadow of my childhood.
As a title, solastalgia denotes a dangerous paradigm of resource extraction and breakneck development, a mindset that is hell-bent on running straight off the cliff of global limits like the end of the oceans’ ability to absorb atmospheric carbon; the end of “safe” fossil fuel extraction in favor of ever-riskier expeditions for black gold and gaseous windfalls, hidden in Arctic permafrost and subterranean shale; and the collapse of ocean currents that warm some of the most heavily populated places on earth, due to melting ice inhibiting the circulation of water.  It illustrates, more accurately, that while the relentless internal logic of capitalism, consumerism, and coal drives humanity to accumulate ever more stuff and destroy ever more ecosystems, it just really doesn’t feel good, on a human level, to see the destruction of places and people in the name of profit. I hope that this blog, in whatever small way, can make that evident.
