---
layout: post
title:  "Retrospection, Re-evaluation, Return"
date:   2016-12-02
excerpt: [...] Since then, things have changed in several ways.  Here in the USA we are looking at 4 years of possibly the most regressive government policies ever passed in this country, thanks to the election of Donald Trump and control of all three branches of government by a ultra-conservative majority that seems totally unprepared to address the major existential crises that we will have to deal with in the very near future, the most severe of which is anthropogenic climate change.  Secondly, I have graduated, which doesn't matter for anyone else but it makes the world look different for me.  And the third, and most troubling, thing is that journalism in this country is quietly throwing in the towel.  Between the complete undercutting of the traditional media's fundraising structure (who wants to pay for ads on the internet??), the rise of social media, and the unwillingness of print and television media to adapt, American journalism seems to be preparing to give up the ghost at precisely the moment when a fearless and free press is needed the most.  An example close to home for me is the my town's local newspaper, which is struggling to raise enough revenue from community donations to cover its costs, including the cost of paying for its journalists - one of whom was yours truly. [...]
---


Hello, again.

Back in January, when I started this website, it was a school assignment, a project for a senior seminar.  I just started writing about something I thought was interesting and important - the Flint water crisis - and set out to see what I could learn.  As my interest evolved, the website began to take on other issues surrounding climate change and the human relationship to environment.  

Since then, things have changed in several ways.  Here in the USA we are looking at 4 years of possibly the most regressive government policies ever passed in this country, thanks to the election of Donald Trump and control of all three branches of government by a ultra-conservative majority that seems totally unprepared to address the major existential crises that we will have to deal with in the very near future, the most severe of which is anthropogenic climate change.  Secondly, I have graduated, which doesn't matter for anyone else but it makes the world look different for me.  And the third, and most troubling, thing is that journalism in this country is quietly throwing in the towel.  Between the complete undercutting of the traditional media's fundraising structure (who wants to pay for ads on the internet??), the rise of social media, and the unwillingness of print and television media to adapt, American journalism seems to be preparing to give up the ghost at precisely the moment when a fearless and free press is needed the most.  An example close to home for me is the my town's local newspaper, which is struggling to raise enough revenue from community donations to cover its costs, including the cost of paying for its journalists - one of whom was yours truly.

It has been quite a year.  So I took a break and re-evaluated my goals.  

Originally, this project had small goals.  I really only wanted the other people in my class to become interested in anthropogenic (man-made) climate change.  

Looking toward the future, maybe I have to set some higher goals.  First, we simply can't stop covering local news just because the newspaper folded.  As much as I am able, I'll continue to report on news of interest to my community.  In addition, because climate change is a complicated topic and the academic writing about it is more complicated still, I'm beginning to write some essays about climate change in plain English.  And finally, I'm doubling down on my commitment to keep an open mind and to adapt to the needs of the moment.

If you're interested in getting in touch with me, please do!  My contact information can be found by clicking on the "contact" button at the bottom of the page.  I'd be interested in talking to anyone about any thing; doubly interested if you want to talk about climate change, politics, or the future of journalism.  

One thing I do know is that the planet we live on is unbelievably complex.  If we are honest with ourselves, we humans are completely incapable of understanding how the entire Earth works.  We don't know, and we couldn't possibly know, exactly how this small blue planet - and its vast cornucopia of living life - spinning in the vastness of space, entirely works.  But if we're to survive this century of existential crisis, we will have to figure out the correct way for human beings to coexist here.  _More to see than can ever be seen, more to do than can ever be done_, as the song goes.  But I guess that just means we try, and possibly fail, and try to understand again.  Onward and upward, friends.

Shall we begin?
